6.2: Created new first-use topic for To-Do Service API documentation (#20)
UWC2-APIDOC/to-do-service-au24: docs/quickstart_guide_david.md

> [Back to Landing Page](overview_david.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This isn't necessary. The documentation theme provides this link automatically.

Author: Thank you for pointing this out!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Probably should delete this line, too.

Author: Yes, thank you!

# Quickstart Guide

> *Welcome to the To-Do Service API! This guide will help you get started quickly by showing you how to enroll a new user and add a task using our API with Postman.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the To-Do Service API! This guide will help you get started quickly by showing you how to enroll a new user and add a task using our API with Postman.
```
Italics don't seem necessary for this.

Author: I made the change. Thank you!

## Overview

In this quickstart, you will:

- Enroll a new user into the To-Do Service.
- Add a new task for that user.
- Retrieve the list of tasks to confirm your additions.

**Estimated time to complete:** 10 minutes

## Prerequisites

> Read the [Before you start a tutorial](before-you-start-a-tutorial.md) for prerequisites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the [Before you start a tutorial](before-you-start-a-tutorial.md) guide to make your system ready for this quickstart.
```
They need to do more than read it before they perform these procedures.

Author: Yes, thank you!

## Step 1: Start the To-Do Service API

Start the API server using `json-server` in the `api` directory:

```shell
json-server -w to-do-db-source.json
```

> This will start the server at `http://localhost:3000`. Set this as an environment variable for base_url in Postman, otherwise you can use `http://localhost:3000` in place of `{{base_url}}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This starts the server at `http://localhost:3000`. Set the value of the `{{base_url}}` environment variable in Postman to `http://localhost:3000` or manually substitute `{{base_url}}` with `http://localhost:3000` when entering the request URL.
```

Author: Great edit suggestion. Thank you!

  "last_name": "Anderson",
  "email": "alice.anderson@example.com"
}
```

5. Click **Send**.

### Response

You should receive a response with the new user data, including an `id`:

```json
{
  "first_name": "Alice",
  "last_name": "Anderson",
  "email": "alice.anderson@example.com",
  "id": 5
}
```

Note: Remember the `id` of the new user (e.g., `5`) for the next step.

## Step 3: Add a New Task for the User

1. Create a new **POST** request to `{{base_url}}/tasks`.

2. In the **Headers** tab, verify:
- Key: `Content-Type`
- Value: `application/json` header`.

3. In the **Body** tab, select **raw** and choose **JSON**.

4. Enter the following JSON data:

```json
{
  "user_id": 5,
  "title": "Finish API Documentation",
  "description": "Complete the first-use topic and tutorial",
  "due_date": "2024-11-01T17:00",
  "warning": -30
}
```

5. Click **Send**.

### Response

You should see the new task with an assigned `id`:

```json
{
    "user_id": 5,
    "title": "Finish API Documentation",
    "description": "Complete the first-use topic and tutorial",
    "due_date": "2024-11-01T17:00",
    "warning": -30,
    "id": 5
}
```

## Step 4: Retrieve the User's Tasks

> 1. Create a new **GET** request to `{{base_url}}/tasks?user_id=5` where `user_id` is the `id` for the user created in Step 2 above. In our example, the `user_id` is `5`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new **GET** request to `{{base_url}}/tasks?user_id=5`.
The value of the `user_id`  parameter is the `id` of the user created earlier in Step 2. 
In this example, the `user_id` value is `5`.
```

Author: Does it not add value to explain the user_id? I removed it but I'm open to feedback so I can learn!

2. Click **Send**.

### Response

> You should receive an array of tasks for the user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains a JSON array with the user's only task, similar to this example.
```
Saying they'll get an array of tasks while showing only one could be confusing.

At the same time, it's important that developers know that although only one task resource was returned, it's returned in an array. Some APIs return only the object (without being in an array) when the request returns only one resource.

Author: That makes sense. Thank you!

Welcome to the To-Do Service API! This guide will help you get started quickly by showing you how to enroll a new user and add a task using our API with Postman.

## Overview

In this quickstart, you will:

- Enroll a new user into the To-Do Service.
- Add a new task for that user.
- Retrieve the list of tasks to confirm your additions.

**Estimated time to complete:** 10 minutes

## Prerequisites

Complete the [Before you start a tutorial](before-you-start-a-tutorial.md) guide to make your system ready for this quickstart.

## Step 1: Start the To-Do Service API

Start the API server using `json-server` in the `api` directory:

```shell
json-server -w to-do-db-source.json
```

This starts the server at `http://localhost:3000`. Set the value of the `{% raw %}{{base_url}}{% endraw %}` environment variable in Postman to `http://localhost:3000` or manually substitute `{% raw %}{{base_url}}{% endraw %}` with `http://localhost:3000` when entering the request URL.

## Step 2: Enroll a New User

1. Open Postman and create a new **POST** request to `{% raw %}{{base_url}}/users{% endraw %}`.

2. In the **Headers** tab, verify:

   - Key: `Content-Type`
   - Value: `application/json`

>   

Reviewer: Here and elsewhere, indented sub lists further so the nesting doesn't get lost.

3. In the **Body** tab, select **raw** and choose **JSON**.

4. Enter the following JSON data:

    ```json
    {
      "first_name": "Alice",
      "last_name": "Anderson",
      "email": "alice.anderson@example.com"
    }
    ```

5. Click **Send**.

> ### Post `users` Response

Reviewer: Changed the names of the "Response" headings to eliminate duplicate headings.

The headings are converted to anchor tags and duplicate headings can create duplicate anchor tags in the page.

      "description": "Complete the first-use topic and tutorial",
      "due_date": "2024-11-01T17:00",
      "warning": -30
    }
    ```

5. Click **Send**.

### POST `tasks` Response

You should see the new task with an assigned `id`:

```json
{
    "user_id": 5,
    "title": "Finish API Documentation",
    "description": "Complete the first-use topic and tutorial",
    "due_date": "2024-11-01T17:00",
    "warning": -30,
    "id": 5
}
```

## Step 4: Retrieve the User's Tasks

1. Create a new **GET** request to `{% raw %}{{base_url}}/tasks?user_id=5{% endraw %}`.

2. Click **Send**.

### Response

The response contains a JSON array with the user's only task, similar to this example.

```json
[
    {
        "user_id": 5,
        "title": "Finish API Documentation",
        "description": "Complete the first-use topic and tutorial",
        "due_date": "2024-11-01T17:00",
        "warning": -30,
        "id": 5
    }
]
```

## Next Steps

Congratulations! You've successfully enrolled a new user and added a task using the To-Do Service API with Postman.

- **Explore more:**

    - Add additional users and tasks.
    - Try updating or deleting tasks using the API.

>     - Check out the [API Reference: Task by User ID](api/tasks-get-tasks-by-user_id_david.md) on how to retrieve all tasks associated with a specific user based on the provided `user_id`.

Reviewer: Changed the filename in the link to match the name of the filename in the current `main` branch.
